---
type: posts
title: WSO2 Internship - V
author: Amutheezan Sivagnanam
category: Internship
date: 2016-12-08
last_modified_at: 2016-12-09
tags:
- wso2

---

In this series of posts, I provide some key points and Ideas that I report to my university during my internship. I
arrange these posts as a set of reports, where each report provides the summary of tasks I have done during those four
weeks of my training and the experience I gained during that period.

This post is the fifth post in the series of posts about my internship @WSO2.

I mainly focused on the last parts of my projects these four weeks, completing the search part and moving into the
notification part. I have made the search part look like the one that existed in the Business Activity Manager's Message
Console. I also make it work efficiently for the dashboard level.

Then I move into the notification part; first, I have looked into the real-time analytics parts such as siddhi queries
and execution plans. I have a look at the documentation and get a clear idea of that. Then I have a meeting with mentors
regarding implementing things, and based on that, out of the six ideas proposed; they choose two scenarios since it
becomes worthwhile doing. And I started doing that.

In the meantime, I also focused on the packaging artifacts as CApp. Then I started designing the dashboard first design
dashboard to display the alerts that persisted in the event store. Then I focused on developing Interactive Map using
the ```leaflet``` javascript library, and Also I improved it to display the popup. After that, I have a look into the
notification of SMS and Email Alerts using Alert Setting.

### **Problem Encountered & Things I learnt**

#### **Arbitrary Attribute**

We can't directly use the arbitrary attribute as it is commonly available as an arbitrary data map. The way to get
specific arbitrary attribute is,

```cast(map:get(ArbitraryMap,'relatedfield/key'), 'typeOfKey')``` as ```fieldName```, here ```typeOfKey``` can be
string,long,int,double. ```fieldName``` is used for ease of access.

```cast(map:get(ArbitraryMap,'relatedfield/key'), 'typeOfKey')``` can be used to filter the input streams based on our
requirement.

##### **Dealing with jaggery controller with CApp**

We can use jaggery controller at dashboard rather than deploying it at ```/portal/controllers/apis```.

##### **Template manager**

Template manager use for complex event processing related concepts mainly, it is best practice for making the
custom ```publisher```, ```executionplans```, ```eventstore```, ```eventstream```.

### **References**

My Blog Links :

1. [Packaging Artifacts as CApp](https://amutheezan.com/internship/2016/12/01/capp.html)
2. [Some Useful Javascript Libraries](https://amutheezan.com/internship/2016/11/23/jslib.html)
3. [Datatables Makes Things Easy](https://amutheezan.com/internship/2016/11/22/dt.html)
4. [Search Comparator & Apache Lucene](https://amutheezan.com/internship/2016/11/19/search.html)
