---
type: posts
title: Introduction to Murphi3.1 - I
author: Amutheezan Sivagnanam
category: Formal Methods and Verification
date: 2021-06-04
comments: true
math: true
tags:
- murphi
- formal-methods

---

In software engineering, we have to go through three main stages, formal specification (i.e., that is fully specifies
how the models works including all possible exceptions and errors), verification (i.e., verify the specified model,
against different inputs and make sure the model works correctly), implementation (i.e., implementing the actual model
which is already specified and verified). For detailed understanding click
this [link](https://users.ece.cmu.edu/~koopman/des_s99/formal_methods/).

### Murphi3.1

Murphi is a tool that developed to verify whether the specfied model work without any failure (note, this different from
error and exception, this is some thing that let the system to unrealistic states. e.g. In a master-slave model, having
two master is unrealistic).

### Basic Tutorials

In this first post, I mainly focus on providing a basic introduction how to work with murphi3.1, like setting constants,
types and variables, and incoming up posts I will go in deep with murphi3.1.

#### Setting Constants

Constants are analogs to the constants we define in normal programming languages. We use constants to define some strict
parameters or limitations in the systems.
e.g. Number of Slaves (in master-slave model)

We can set simple constants using following
syntax in Murphi,

```
const
  <constant_name>: <const_value>;
```

#### Defining Variables

Again, variables are used to keep track of varying values in the system. We can use either simple variables with exist
variable types such as ```boolean``` or we can define a custom variables by defining the type in type definition (in
that case type definition should presents before defining the variables other wise compilation error would occurs). You
can also define the variable as array of varriable by using```array``` key word.

Variable can be defined in the following format

Simple definition,

```c
var
	<variable_name>: <type>;
```

Using array definition,

```c
var
	<variable_name>: array[<type_name_1>] of <type_name_2>;
```

where ```type_name_1``` is mostly from the type defined upon ```scalerset``` or ```multiset```, where
as ```type_name_2``` can be from simple complex structured type as well as simple types. I will discuss more about types
in the next paragraph.

#### Defining Types

Next, we look into how to define a type. It can go through either simple steps using predefine structures on top of
existing types like ```scalarset``` or ```multiset```, or define with enumeration ```enum```. In more complex cases one
or more type can be provided as the attributes of the type.

Types can be defined in the following format

Simple Definition:
Here the type is define on top of the ```scalerset```.

```c
type
  	<type_name>: scalarset(<integer_value>);
```

Complex Structure:

In complex structure, we can combine on or more simple types and complex ones as well. Also we can provides enumerations
as attributes. Types can be resembles the object of the general programming. In the below examples we can observe that
there are two attributes inside the main type (``record``) such as ```enum``` and another one, it can be either
another ```type``` we defined or predefined types.

```c
type
	<type_name>: record
		<attribute_1>: enum { 
			ENUM_VAL_1,
			ENUM_VAL_2
		};
		<attribute_2>: <type_name>;
	end;
```

#### Defining Functions or Procedures.

We can defines functions or procedures based on the following syntax,

```c
procedure NameOfProcedure(<arg_name>: <arg_type>;...);
begin
....
end
```

You can define input mutliple input arguments by seperating each argument definition using ```;```.

In the [next post](https://amutheezan.com/formal%20methods%20and%20verification/murphi3.1-2), I will discuss on how to
define the rulesets, startstate and invariants.

Hope you enjoy this post.
